So once we start typing things into the R
prompt, they we're going to be start,
we're going to start coding and
doing calculation.
So the things that we type into
the R prompt are called expressions.
So for example, the symbol,
which looks like a left-hand arrow and
is actually the less than symbol,
followed by a hyphen this is what's
called the assignment operator.
The assignment operator is what
assigns a value to a symbol.
So, for example, in this first expression
here the symbol that I'm creating is
called x, and the value that
I'm assigning it is call, is 1.
And thi, so, and I used the assignment
operator to create that.
So x is 1, is a, is an R expression.
And the next expression I'm going to
print that value so print is a function.
And I'm passing it the symbol x so
that when I print out x I get its
value which, in this case is 1.
So another thing to think
about x is also considered a,
is an R object that is a numeric
object that has one element.
So it's really a numeric vector where
the first element is the number one.
In the third expression here, you notice,
I'm just typing X at the prompt and, and,
and when you hit enter what happens
is it prints out the value of X.
So this is called, this is another way to
print out an object without explicitly
calling the print function.
So in the,
in this expression over here, I'm creating
a new symbol called message, MS, MSG.
And I'm assigning it a value
of the string hello.
All right?
So now, this is a character vector.
And the first element of this
character vector is the string hello.
I could add other elements to
this vector if I wanted to,
but they would all have to be character.
So the grammar of the language
determines whether an expression is
syntactically correct or not.
Or whether it's complete.
So for example by this type x followed
by the assignment operator and
I don't have anything else, that's not a,
that's not a complete expression and so
when I hit Enter nothing will
happen because it's waiting for
the expression to be completed.
The other thing I've got here
is this hash symbol here.
So this hash symbol here it indicates
that everything to the right of
that is a comment.
And so the, the, the, the,
the R engine will ignore anything that
happens to the right of that symbol.
So you can put things like comments or
notes to yourself in code and
R will just ignore those comments.
So once you've typed in
a syntactically valid and
complete expression at the prompt
when you hit enter what happens is
that the expression is
evaluated by the R engine.
And the result of that evaluation
expression is then returned.
And so, so
sometimes when you evaluate an expression,
nothing happens because there's
nothing to really show.
And so, for example,
in the first expression here when
I say x is assigned to be five.
So I'm creating an object called x.
It's a numeric vector and
the first element's going to be five.
Now when I hit enter nothing happens
because there's really nothing to show.
And so but now when I hit x and
I hit enter it prints out the value five,
so it prints out the value of x.
So when I hit x, when,
when I type in x and
I hit enter, that, and it prints out five,
that's called autoprinting, and
so when you just type an object's name and
hit enter.
R will by default autoprint
the value of that object.
This is the same as calling the print
function on that object which will
just print out the value of that object.
So you can explicitly print an object or
you can auto print an object.
So this is,
this sounds a little complicated but
it's really just the natural thing to do
and it is what most people would expect.
You'll notice that when I
print out the object x,
there's a little one in brackets here.
And you might be wondering what that is.
So, all that indicates is that, it,
it's telling you what element
of the vector is being shown.
And this will make more sense when
we have longer vectors to look at.
But all this is shame, saying is that
the number five that you're seeing there
is the first element of the vector.
So for printing you'll see that here I'm
creating an x an object called x and
it's the sequence one to 20, so
the colon operator here that I've used
is what's used to create a sequence.
So, when I say one colon 20,
that creates a sequence of one, two,
three, all the way up to 20.
So, now when I autoprint x in this case,
you'll see I've got a long,
much longer vector here.
In this case, it's an integer vector.
And you'll see that the first line of
the printout it has a one next to it,
because that's the first element.
And then the, the second line has
a 16 in brackets because that's,
the first element of that line is
the 16th element of this vector.
So it's all kind of straightforward but
just that's how the printout works